---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: The difficult things will always be difficult
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2020-09-03
labels:
  - Javascript
---

## A Whole New Experience...

### Previous Experience
	While I would not yet consider myself a professional software engineer, I have accumulated a decent amount of coding experience from my past two years at UH Manoa.  After taking a Programming for Engineering course and realizing my passion was for coding rather than physics, I was quick to pursue this interest.  I have taken a year total of C/C++ courses, and have developed a solid understanding of lower-level programming.  I now feel incredibly comfortable working with pointers and behind-the-scenes operations within a console environment.  So naturally, ICS 314 is the exact opposite of what I’m comfortable with.
### Javascript
	Being used to low-level programming, switching over to Javascript has felt quite foreign.  While the syntax of Javascript is (so far) similar to C/C++, it’s application is completely different.  Luckily, it is somewhat similar to Java, which I used for ICS 111 and ICS 211 last year.  As I am learning Python for ICS 235 concurrently to this class, I feel that all of my coding this semester is the complete opposite of what I am most comfortable with.  With that being said, working through the javascript FreeCodeCamp and working on practice assignments in JSFiddle has been incredibly helpful in understanding the language.  So far, Javascript is feeling like a web-based version of Python, as both high-level languages are much less strict with their syntax compared to C.  The best example of this that I have encountered so far is how variable declaration in both Javascript and Python do not require a primitive type, and functions can return multiple different primitive types.  
### Athletic Software Development
	The other strikingly different aspect of this class is the “athletic” approach to software development.  In all of my past classes, I have been able to take however much time I needed in order to write, test, and submit assignments.  As a result, most code I have turned in has been nearly as optimized as possible, but at the expense of multiple hours poured into assignments that I could have completed much quicker.  Of course code efficiency is important, but the ability to quickly write and compile code that accomplishes the given task is equally as important for a career in this field.  My experience so far with this style of learning has been quite successful, however I have noticed that it is harder for me to spot simple mistakes when being timed (unfortunately this has resulted in me failing to successfully implement an assignment because of a simple spelling error).  I definitely see the merit of athletic software development in regards to professional coding, and look forward to progress enough to not feel as much pressure when coding under a time restraint.  
## Final Thoughts
For me, ICS 314 has been an introduction to the professional, realistic side of software engineering.  I know that my entire career is not going to be centered around low-level programming like C/C++, so practicing with high-level languages is incredibly welcomed.  The fast-paced style of software development introduced in this class is arguably more beneficial than learning Javascript, and I think it will prove invaluable to my professional development.  Overall, I am looking forward to becoming more familiar with a different side of programming than I am used to over the course of this semester and can’t wait to begin my career in software development.
