---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: A Programmer's TRUE Skill
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2020-09-10
labels:
  - Questions
  - Answers
  - StackOverflow
---

## The importance of smart questions
With a wide variety of programming languages, platforms, IDEs, and software to choose from, computer science is an incredibly broad discipline.  On top of the ever-expanding amount of content, most developer tools are constantly updating and evolving.  This results in the inevitable problem of getting stuck and not knowing what’s wrong with your code or how to properly implement your ideas.  Because of this, a programmer’s ability to ask smart questions is one of their most important assets.  

## What makes a question "smart"?
While there are many ways to word your question, some ways are more likely to get a response than others.  By being able to convey a clear, concise question that shows you researched the problem prior to asking for help, you are much more likely to get a useful response.  

[This question](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/63835584/using-python-how-do-i-split-on-multiple-delimiters-and-keep-only-one-in-my-outp) on Stack Overflow provides an excellent example of a smart question that yielded useful results.

The title quickly conveys the user’s question:
```
Using Python, how do I split on multiple delimiters and keep only one in my 
output list?
```

They then go into more detail:
```
a very green python user here, so go easy on me and the docs haven't helped me 
understand what I'm missing. Similar to “RE split multiple arguments | (or) 
returns none python”, I need to split a string on multiple delimiters. The 
above question only allows either keeping none or keeping both delimiters - I 
need to keep only one of them. Note that the above question was from 2012, so 
likely a much earlier version of Python that 3.6, which I'm using
```

They provide a link to the other StackOverflow question they referenced, showing that research was put into their current question.  After stating their question, they provide an example of their data, desired outcome, current implementation, and a couple methods that they already tried.  They end the post by stating what they think the problem is related to and thanking the forum users for their help.

Three separate answers were posted within an hour of the original question, all of which provided an example of how to implement their solution, and the author of the question marked the thread as ‘answered’.

## The dangers of a “not so smart” question
Just like how a researched, thorough question can result in a quick and useful answer, questions that are too broad and have minimal effort put into them often result in a sarcastic response, if any at all.  

[This question](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/63840658/how-to-integrate-payment-in-react-native) on Stack Overflow illustrates what happens when an incredibly vague question with minimal effort is asked:

```
How to integrate payment in React Native?

I have made a simple React Native shopping app with CodeIgniter backend. Then 
I am new to the payment integration. How to integrate payment in React-Native? 
Is it possible to integrate paypal without backend? Backend is inevitable or 
can it be done without backend? In only frontend, such as calling payment 
webview. Any reference link or help will be appreciate. Thank you.
```

In this example, the user restates their intentions over and over, despite the fact that a simple google search could have answered their question.  Surprisingly, someone was nice enough to respond to this question with a brief description of why server-side coding is needed, even though a simple “no” would have technically answered the user’s question.  However, the person who answered the question had nothing to go off of, so they were only able to redirect the original user to Paypal’s developer page, again something that could have been achieved with a simple google search.  By not researching the question before posting, the user was unable to formulate a specific enough question that could actually result in useful answers.

## Conclusion
The ability to formulate smart questions is an invaluable skill, especially for programmers.  With continuously evolving development tools being the only constant in the field of computer science, it is imperative that programmers are able to find the information they need to implement their code.  Smart questions not only increase the chances of solving your particular problem, but widen the knowledge available to the community as a whole.  Don’t be afraid to ask questions, just make sure you put some effort into them!

