---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Finding My Passion
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2020-09-04
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Learning
---

## Figuring Things Out
I am halfway through my educational career at UH Manoa, and I can only now say that I am confident in my choice in the degree I am pursuing.  While I have always been interested in computers and technology, I had no idea what I wanted to pursue for the longest time.  Participating in robotics competitions since fifth grade helped me realize my passion for technology and innovation, so I entered UH Manoa with the intent of becoming an engineer.  It wasn’t until the second semester of my freshman year that I actually started taking classes even remotely relevant to my major though, so I had no clue what I was getting into until the end of my first full year.  I took a Programming for Engineers class the same time as introductory Physics and Chemistry classes, but I noticed I was only ever passionate about the coding assignments I had that semester.  That is when I realized I needed to switch my major.

## The Right Choice
Despite a lack of interest in engineering as a whole, the Programming for Engineers class introduced me to low-level programming through the C language.  I was instantly intrigued, and knew I wanted to pursue it further.  After taking the required introductory ICS class, I got an override to take ICS 212, where I was able to dive deeper into how programs are structured and what actually happens behind the scenes of most languages.  I spent most of my free time last semester learning as much as I could from that class.  If there was ever any doubt about switching to computer science before last semester, I forgot all about it by the time I finished my second year at UH.

## Moving Forward
	This semester is shaping up to be the exact opposite of the style of programming I got so accustomed to from ICS 212.  I am taking ICS 235, 311, and 314 this semester.  I love algorithm optimization, so 311 should be an incredibly useful class.  My remaining two classes are focused around writing a lot of code in high-level languages.  Because of this, speed and time management are going to become a huge factor this semester.  While this might not be what I was used to from ICS 212, this will be priceless in preparing me for a proper career in software development.  I am looking forward to expanding my knowledge and becoming comfortable with programming in high-level languages, as well as programming quickly and efficiently.
