---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: The Steeper The Climb, The Better The View
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2020-10-08
labels:
  - Add labels
---

## A Simpler Time
When I enrolled in Software Engineering, I was looking forward to undertaking the always-challenging task learning new software, frameworks, and programming languages.  I knew the course dealt with web development, but aside from that, I was going into it blind.  Fortunately for me, I found my footing in this completely new environment pretty quickly, thoroughly enjoying the exposure to such a new style of programming compared to my background in lower-level development.  The concept of functional programming caught me by surprise, seeming so complex and unfamiliar, yet so incredibly intuitive and straightforward (at least, the very basics that we have been exposed to so far).  After becoming familiar with the functional language of Javascript, HTML and CSS seemed like a natural progression for software engineering.  These first five or six weeks of class definitely had a learning curve, but I finally started to develop a decent understanding of the style and content of the course.  And then UI Frameworks were introduced.

## A Brutal Beginning
After about a week of coding websites with pure HTML and CSS that looked like they were created before the turn of the century, we were introduced to UI frameworks, Semantic UI in particular.  When hearing about what UI frameworks were and how they worked, I was rejoicing that we no longer needed to spend hours trying to implement every meticulous detail of our websites with only the bare minimum HTML experience under our belts.  However after watching a three hour introduction of Semantic UI, I realized two things: UI frameworks are absolutely imperative in the creation of any semi-modern website, and that there are a LOT of different keywords, classes, and techniques to remember when using such frameworks.  

By now, I have become pretty used to the process of learning a new programming language and having to re-familiarize myself with all the different variations in syntax and implementation.  With that being said, learning Semantic UI has been harder for me than any programming language that I have learned before.  Simple tasks such as adding a menu bar with a logo in one corner and decently spaced out menu options in the other corner has proven far more time consuming than I expected.  To make matters worse, the differences between different screen sizes, resolutions and browser dimensions means that my websites never look identical to the example sites for any given assignment.  Small details such as persistently rounded edges on your supposedly straight-edged menu create much larger obstacles than they should, as my background in programming cannot be directly translated over into the syntax and mindset of UI frameworks.  Unfortunately, this has resulted in me finding myself still spending hours trying to implement every meticulous detail of each website I make.  

## A Hopeful Future
RIP
