---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Success in Software Engineering
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2020-12-17
labels:
  - Configuration Management
  - Issue-Driven Project Management
  - Ethics
---

## Introduction
This past semester has definitely been a unique experience for everyone.  Online learning has definite drawbacks and no one wants to be forced to sit at their desk and hop from one zoom meeting to another all day.  With that being said, I feel I was still able to get a solid education out of the computer science classes I took.  In fact, the ability to share my screen with my classmates and the professor allowed everyone to examine code all from the comfort of my home desktop.  Coming from a background in lower-level programming, I can definitely say that I finished this semester knowing infinitely more about higher-level programming languages such as javascript and python than I did at the beginning of the semester.  However, as useful as the specific technical skills I developed are, the biggest takeaway from this semester was the professionalism and big-picture skills taught in Software Engineering.  The technical skills and tech stacks of my professional career are sure to fluctuate, but the thought process and approach to coding I have gained this semester will stick with me forever.  

## Configuration Management
One of the biggest takeaways from the Software Engineering course for me was the use of configuration management and version control.  This is the practice of maintaining software, projects, or servers such that each version is stored and separated from each other, allowing everyone to work on their own version of the project before combining it back into the final deployable version.  While this was able to be incredibly effectively demonstrated in the context of web development, I believe that version control tools such as GitHub are an invaluable resource for software development of any kind.  Getting hands-on experience with creating repositories, branching and merging locally in GitHub Desktop, then pushing to the global master branch made me feel much more comfortable trying new ideas in my code and knowing that I would be able to revert to a previous branch if my idea did not work.  The application for professional software development is incredibly obvious for this topic - any professional software I work on in the future will utilize some form of version control and configuration management.  The use of these tools do not end at professional development, however; I have been able to utilize GitHub in both my academic and personal life.  My professor for Machine Learning often utilizes GitHub to create homework templates we can port directly into our development environment.  As a board member for the Programs and Algorithms (PANDA) club, we utilize GitHub Desktop to plan, organize, then solve the problems we cover in the club meetings, allowing multiple board members to simultaneously work on next week’s solutions.  Finally, I have found GitHub to be an amazing tool for organizing and presenting any personal coding projects or projects/homework from previous semesters that I am proud of, both for personal storage and professional portfolios.

## Issue-Driven Project Management
The next biggest professional skill developed from this class was issue-driven project management.  This is a style of agile project management, which is the idea of iteratively working on pieces of a project, adding pieces to the current version of the project once it is fully done.  As the name suggests, issue-driven project management divides the project into pieces where each piece represents a documented issue that needs to be overcome in order to complete the project.  While the approach seems somewhat obvious, the practice of breaking up a project into milestones, documenting issues that need to be completed by each milestone, then assigning each issue to a team member makes the daunting task of starting a huge project a step-by-step collage of small, doable tasks.  Fortunately, GitHub provides an easy and intuitive method of implementing this style.  Needless to say, learning GitHub’s integrated method of issue-driven project management was incredibly helpful for working on team projects.  Again, web development was a great example of this process.  Dividing front-end and back-end work into different milestones, then assigning different pages of the website to different team members was an excellent way of approaching the [final project](https://robert-lemon-uhm.github.io/projects/AthletiCheck) for the Software Engineering class.  Just like configuration management, this is a skill that will be extremely useful in my professional career.  If I ever work on a coding project again, issue-driven project management is going to be a practice that I could adapt to whatever the project might be, especially if there are others working on it with me.  

## Ethics in Software Engineering
The last professional skill is a bit more abstract than configuration management and issue-driven project management, as it does not actually involve how to write code, but rather *when* to write code.  Ethics in software engineering is a topic that can easily be overlooked on one’s path to learning how to program.  Both personal and professional ethics play a large, yet often overlooked, role in software engineering.  It is easy to get lost in the technical aspect of a project, challenging yourself to figure out how to implement a client’s given task.  On top of that, it is easy to find a justification for developing just about anything for a client.  (We have explored this in class through a debate on whether or not Facebook should be uninstalled for privacy concerns, and it was scarily easy to find a narrow yet potentially valid justification).  Because of this, it is extremely important to have both a set of personal ethics that dictates what you are willing to work on, and a set of generally accepted professional ethics to keep your personal ones in check.  An example of that from the Software Engineering class was how my group decided to handle COVID-related forms on our mock-up website.  The form we linked to is the real COVID clearance form that the University of Hawaii Athletics uses, so we needed to make sure that anyone testing our website knew to not actually submit information to the university.  While this may seem insignificant, issues like password/finance management and targeted content could have a direct impact on the health and safety of the general public.  Lazily storing financial information could endanger users without their knowledge and creating targeted content might convince users to buy or do something potentially harmful.  ([This article](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/the-code-im-still-ashamed-of-e4c021dff55e/#.tsjl7lkxy) discusses a website aimed at tricking teens into buying a company’s medication that led to some users developing severe depression).  Once you know of the potential risks, it is pretty easy to realize why ethics is important to consider in any code you develop.  Of course, ethics is not limited to just software engineering by any means - this is a skill set that should be applied to anything you do in life, both personal and professional.

---
