---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: The Unintroduced Basics
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2020-12-03
labels:
  - Design Patterns
  - UI Frameworks
  - Web Development
---

# Introduction
When you learn to code at a university, the typical approach involves signing up for the introductory coding course, where you practice basic programming concepts and techniques in whatever language the professor chooses for you.  After your first course, you’ll probably start learning the details of more advanced abstract data structures, and probably get a brief introduction to simple algorithms such as bubble and insertion sort.  By this point, you’ll start to feel like you have a decent foundation of the fundamentals of programming to build upon, and will start taking classes like machine learning, algorithm analysis, or software engineering.  Before long, you will apply for internships, eventually graduate, and attempt to begin your professional career in the field of computer science.  You will sit down at an interview expecting to impress the interviewer with your technical skills, ready to prove your knowledge.  And then they will ask you about design patterns.  *What are design patterns???*

# Why Are Design Patterns Untaught?
Before we can begin to discuss what design patterns are, we must first discuss why it is so easy for programmers to skip over this concept.  Design patterns are quite a simple topic to understand - in fact, you don’t need to have any technical knowledge to understand what design patterns are and why they are important.  With that being said, specific examples of design patterns in computer science often require a solid programming and object orientation foundation in order to fully understand.  Thus, finding an introductory computer science class that covers design patterns would be no easy task.  Unfortunately, after you learn the basics, design patterns are something that naturally comes next, but might not ever be formally introduced.  The best analogy of this would be taking a math class one semester, mastering the material that the professor introduced, then next semester you show up to your new math class and the professor casually mentions that you should have learned x, y, and z from your previous class, but you have never seen x, y, and z before in your life.  

# What Are Design Patterns?
We know why design patterns are often breezed over in a lot of computer science curriculum, but we still don’t know what design patterns are.  Well, design patterns are simply a general or reusable solution to a problem that occurs frequently in computer science.  These solutions are not language-specific and are not the only approach at solving their respective problems, but they are the generally accepted solutions that decades of professional computer science expertise has deemed to be the best general approach.  Because of this, design patterns are commonly taught in programming classes without even mentioning that they are design patterns.  For example, ICS 211 at the University of Hawaii at Manoa introduces the concept of singleton instances to restrict the user from creating more than one instance of a specific class.  At the time, we just thought it was a clever way of ensuring that there was only ever one instance of our pizza bakery class for our pizza coding project.  However, this idea of singleton instances is the incredibly well-known and generally accepted design pattern for limiting object creation and class instances.  

# Design Patterns in Software Engineering
While individual examples like the singleton instance successfully demonstrates design patterns, software engineering and web development is without a doubt the best example of design patterns.  The nature of software engineering requires you to constantly have to implement a solution to problems that almost every other software developer also has to face.  If your website requires a collection of users that each have their own data associated with their account, you could either try and reinvent the wheel, or use a design pattern.  Throughout this past semester, I have learned to utilize multiple of these design patterns without even thinking about it.  The user collection example is a great example of the publish-subscribe design pattern, providing each user with only the specific database entries associated with their account.  My final project for Software Engineering (ICS 314) is focused around creating profile pages for individual athletes and allowing trainers to access every athlete’s profile, which practically begs for the use of the publish-subscribe design pattern.  On top of this, we use Javascript for the entirety of the back-end development, which utilizes the prototype design pattern of creating a copy of objects when wanting to make a new instance.  This allows for the user to only interact with the end result, not displaying the complexity of each object.  Through these two examples, we are able to truly see the power of design patterns - from everything to the big-picture design of your website’s entire database to the intrinsic implementation of the language you use to code it, design patterns are a tried and true set of solutions.
